# CS-340-7-3-Project
CS-340 Client/Server Development 

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

Unfortunately, to write a program that is maintainable, readable and adaptable is a very difficult task even in the best of circumstances, especially if per se you work for a big software development company. Items that may seem trivial to you in your code, so you don’t label them or explain them, could become a major headache for the next person that is assigned to work on the code. But you also have to balance with the fact that you can over load the code with too much data, especially if you are working with file size restrictions. Working in sections (Building a database in MOD 3, building a glue layer and test code in MOD 4, putting it together in MOD 5 and adding the Dash board in MOD 6) does make for easier because you are working on parts of an overall project, smaller chunks making the daunting task of code writing more manageable. ANd who knows how this simple, barely fuctioning code will help me in the future.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

As a computer scientist I would approach a problem like I do most other problems, as Mr. Spock might say, Logically of course. I start by carefully analyzing the problem, then look at what resources I have available to me, formulate a strategy and enlist the help of subject matter experts. This project differed form most projects during my course to obtain a degree. I felt that this project had a bit more real-world application, in light of increased frequency of terror attacks, kidnappings, environmental disasters and severe weather, the need for these specially trained canines is all the more important. And also recruiting from local Humane Societies facilities, would give these dogs a second chance on life as much as over half the dogs that enter a shelter are euthanized. The building off of the previous layer, that we did here is probably the best way to code, in my opinion.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

I see Computer Scientists as people who solve problems. The Computer Scientists work in a broad area when it comes to computers, developing software, designing computer systems and working internet/system security just to name a few. Computers are a marvelous invention, they can make the job of processing data a simple and efficient task, at speeds that humans simply can’t achieve and do it precisely without error. Something most human can’t do. The previous assignment (Data Aggregation) took the task of adding up the number of employees for various companies throughout states in a mere second, vice at least a few minutes with the best humans. I feel Computer Scientists touch on nearly all aspects of human life, intelligent house automation devices, animated entertainment, video games, YouTube, iPhones, home security, WiFi, and so much more. Working on a project like this, an open source and accessible software so similar organizations may use and adapt it could help many other similar organizations and companies. This project makes the job of locating potential canine candidates fast, effective, and streamlined to get more of these magnificent dogs where we need them.
